---
layout: post
title:  "Pdgn plays D&D: Jackal Dating Sim"
author: "Aaron Weiss"
author_url: "http://aaronweiss.us/"
date:   2015-06-25 23:39:40
categories: general
---

As a quick introduction, we're running a Dungeons and Dragons, 5th Edition campaign for Pdgn. After
each session, I'll be writing a post summarizing our adventure thus far. Our party is large
(currently ten people), but we anticipate that subsets of the group will participate in various
sessions. So, hopefully, it won't be too overwhelming. Each session, I'll include a list of players
and characters present.

Characters: John "Battle Boar" Ionescu (cSmith), Raz (ubuntor), Baern Lutgehr (Hyper), Vanswaxle
Fearless Pants (JacobEdelman), Lucifirius (Lucifirius), and Ez-Ra (The_Master)

---


![Crude map](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/8097711/WorldMap.png)

Our adventure is set in the desert region of Hava. A once great kingdom, Hava was weakened long ago
by political turmoil, and, according to legend, a powerful beast from the Void. Modern day Hava is
divided into three kingdoms, ruled from their capitals: Aki'ba, Mehgraba, and Mehrabya. In the
center of the region, a powerful magical sandstorm rages, known only as the Void. Only one party
has ever ventured into the Void, and little is known about its origin or nature. In recent years,
the kingdom of Mehrabya has expanded its efforts to harnass the magical power of the Void. They've
started a small colony on its edge, but little is known about their intentions. The expansive
kingdom of Aki'ba has focused its efforts on resource acquisition, and trade. Its main trade
partner is the kingdom of Mehrabya, one rather devoid of access to mined resources, and in constant
competition with Mehgraba for its fisheries. In the southeast, there are two running mountain
ranges, the Elahu and the Addin. The kingdom of Aki'ba once held undisputed control over the
mountain pass, but a recent mining accident has blocked the pass. Although the kingdoms are vast,
their grasps are weak, and the villages, far off from the cities, are more interested in their own
survival than big city politics.

The government of Aki'ba is a powerful, authoritarian caliphate. The caliph rules by divine right,
and his goals are well-known to be the reunification of Hava. They're a traditionalistic culture,
and do not welcome magic in their capital. Meanwhile, Mehgraba operates a large representative
democracy with less clear motivations. Aki'ba and Mehgraba have been warring for centuries as a
result of Aki'ba's desire for reunification. Mehrabya is organized autonomously. Each settlement in
the kingdom hosts biweekly meetings to determine major policy decisions, and a random member of the
community is selected to manage minor (or necessarily immediate) policy decisions during the
interim two weeks. Their stated goal is to use magic to enrich their own lives, and they've been
consistently playing both sides of the war to ensure their own autonomy. Although disparate in
ideology and culture in the modern age, the kingdoms are all linked by a rich shared cultural
tradition dating back to an ancient legend of the great united kingdom of Hava.

As the legend has it, long ago, the entire region was unified under one sultanate known as Hava.
The sultan of this great kingdom was a powerful wizard known as Jafar the Great. Amidst his rule,
a powerful monster came from the Void, and sought to destroy the kingdom. In response to this
immenent threat, Jafar called forth his armies to defend the kingdom. For three long years, the
creature roamed the deserts, preying on innocent travellers and military scouting parties alike.
Occasionally, the creature would assault villages, and burn them to the ground. As the creature
destroyed villages, it continued to grow in size and power, and it became increasingly daring,
drawing ever nearer to the capital. In an attempt to determine how to destroy the creature slowly
but surely destroying the kingdom, Jafar assembled a party of powerful adventurers, and led them
into the Void in search of answers. In all of the region's history, this is the only time that a
group has ever entered the heart of the Void. Several months passed, and they still had not
returned. As fear of their death grew, galvanic opportunists jumped at the opportunity to try to
seize the throne. 

This dispute threw the leaderless kingdom farther into a state of political
turmoil. Several months from when the dispute arose, Jafar and his party returned to Hava with
nothing but a mysterious magical orb. They didn't know what it did or how to use it, but it was the
only thing they found before they grew too weary to continue. They had no time to explain however
because on the day of their return, the monster struck the capital. Even larger and more powerful
than before, the monster destroyed the capital with ease, even in spite of the party's attempts to
defend it. Jafar managed narrowly to escape, but the rest of his party was killed in the battle.
Weak and alone, he then spent three weeks wandering the desert in search of insight into the magic
orb they discovered in the Void. He visited many spiritual tribes who knew nothing of this orb,
until one day, a great spirit came to him in a vision. The spirit taught him an ancient spell to
use the orb, but the spell came at a great cost – it could destroy anything in an area, but it also
meant destroy *everything* in that area – including the caster. Wracked with guilt, Jafar
nevertheless felt it was his duty to save the kingdom and destroy the monster, and so, he sought it
out. They found one another one fateful day, not too far from the Void, and Jafar sacrificed
himself to destroy it. News spread quickly throughout the remains of the kingdom of the monster's
defeat, and of Jafar's sacrifice, but it was mostly too late. The monster had destroyed most of the
kingdom, and all that remained were three small villages near the Enku and Alela rivers. It was
these three small villages that grew into the kingdoms (and capitals) of modern Hava. Little is
known about the truth of this story, nor is much known about the united kingdom of Hava. Still,
this story is a shared knowledge for all the Havan people, and represents what little collective
unity they have left.

Our adventure begins in the Mehrabya village of Karri where two warlocks, Lucifirius and Vanswaxle
have hired a rag-tag group of adventurers to help transport a large grain shipment originally from
the farms of Jaffa to the city of Aki'ba. Jaffa is known for its quality grain and bakeries, and
Jaffan grain is considered quite the luxury in much of Hava. They hope to fetch a pretty price for
the grain on the market. Having just arrived in town from the west, our party heads immediately to
the local tavern to satiate their great thirsts and to rest in preparation of further travels.
While at the tavern, a mischievous Ez-Ra plays a prank on Vanswaxle, casting a spell to make the
air sour. However, acknowledging his own tendency to misperceive, Vanswaxle ignores the taste. A
caring dwarf, Baern sees it upon himself to give a group hug to three lonesome men sitting at the
bar in the middle of the day. Meanwhile, tired of the bar's quietness, Vanswaxle goes outside to
use magic to convince passerbys to join the party in tavern revelry. He's successful in his
attempts, and a large crowd fills the tavern. The group drinks plenty of water for their health,
and, of course, Baern manages to get a bit tipsy from mead. Pressed for time on their delivery, the
group quickly scrounges together supplies to continue their travels and heads out east toward a
minor trading post.

After travelling for a full day, the party decides to set up camp for nightfall. Vanswaxle is
placed first on watch for the night. During his watch, he swears to see a large, fast-moving beast
headed toward the camp, and he quickly awakens everyone using his telepathic speech. However, upon
further investigation, none of our party is able to see any such beast, and indeed, there wasn't
one. Before noticing the lack of incoming enemies, Battle Boar springs to action and uses his
signal whistle to call two pigs to his side. Lonely, the pigs decide to hang around for the night.
Having pre-emptively employed magic to make himself invisible, Vanswaxle sees it fit to take
advantage of his invisibility and so he strips naked and runs around the camp. Unfortunately for
him, the desert nights in Hava are bitterly cold, and he begins to catch frostbite in his toes and
netherregions. Thankfully, Battle Boar is more than equipped to heal his wounds and prevent
further damage from the freezing cold. With that excursion passed, Raz is set on watch, and the
rest of our party heads back to sleep.

A short while into his watch, Raz spots three small, four-legged creatures headed toward the camp.
Raz awakens the party, and Vanswaxle sends for his imp to scout out the incoming enemies.
Vanswaxle's imp returns and informs the party that three liches are on the way causing the party to
ignore the enemies and argue about whether or not to engage the liches. Fortunately for our party,
the imp was tragically mistaken and the creature instead appeared to be jackals. Noticing this
fact, Battle Boar once again springs to action trying to charm the jackals into friendship, but is
ultimately unsuccessful. Nevertheless, with their powerful magic, our party is quickly able to deal
with one of the creatures, killing it almost instantly. At this point, the two remaining jackals
transform into humanoid jackal hybrids, and our party realizes that they are in fact jackalweres.
The jackalweres manage to deal some serious damage to our rogue, Raz, but once again, Battle Boar
comes to the rescue with his healing. With more magic, our party knocks a second jackalwere
unconscious. Then, feeling diplomatic and disinterested in combat, Vanswaxle telepathically offers
for the jackalwere to stand down, promising to have Battle Boar heal his unconscious companion.
With little choice, the jackalwere takes the deal, and stands down. Our party makes good on the
deal, and revitalizes the other jackalwere. Feeling wary of the jackalweres because of their
reputation as a species, our party tries to determine if they're up to something. However, they
decide as a group that the jackalweres are likely trustworthy.

Even still, Lucifirius and Vanswaxle are particularly touchy about the cargo in transit. So, they
decide to pretend to sleep and to keep watch over the jackalweres. Meanwhile, the rest of the party
heads back to bed. The weaker jackalwere then pulls some meat from his pants pocket and begins to
cook it. Noticing this, Vanswaxle disguises his voice and speaks telepathically to the jackalwere
asking if he can share some meat, and ultimately, trying to seduce him. Initially, his attempts to
seduce him fail, but with enough persistence, he gets through. The jackalwere leaves the camp,
shapeshifts into a human, and heads back to Karri to meet up with his telepathic seducer.
Distracted by this endeavour, Vanswaxle fails to notice the other jackalwere sneaking up on him,
and before he has the chance to react, the jackalwere attacks him lying down, critically injuring
him. While much of the party springs awake, Battle Boar remains asleep and is thus unable to offer
healing to the weakened Vanswaxle. Vanswaxle uses his magic to try to escape the jackalwere and
give his party members a chance to kill him, but the jackalwere is much faster. Ultimately, the
jackalwere is able to knock Vanswaxle unconscious before the skilled shot of Raz's bow is able to
kill him. With one jackelware gone and the other two dead, Ez-Ra uses his medical kit to stabilize
Vanswaxle, and the party is able to collect itself once more.

To be continued next session.
